Statistical analysis
Assuming a 3·3% incidence of the primary endpoint in
the heparin group and allowing for 1% loss to follow-up,
3000 patients per group (6000 total) would provide 80%
power to detect a 1·2% absolute risk reduction with
bivalirudin with a 2-sided α of 0·05.6 Data were collected
and analysed according to the predefined statistical
analysis plan. All primary analyses were by intention to
treat. Sensitivity analyses were performed in the
per-protocol population (defined as patients who received
any dose of study medication and who met all inclusion
criteria and no exclusion criteria) and among patients in
whom PCI was performed. No imputation was used to
infer missing values. Those with missing primary and
secondary endpoint data were censored at the time of
withdrawal of consent or loss to follow-up. Categorical
variables were compared using the χ² test or Fisher’s
exact test. Continuous data were presented as the mean
and standard deviation or median and IQR and were
compared using a Student’s t-test or the Wilcoxon rank-
sum test. Time-to-first-event rates were estimated using
the Kaplan-Meier method and were compared with the
log-rank test. Hazard ratios (HR) and 95% CIs were
established from a Cox model. The proportional hazards
assumption for the primary outcome was confirmed
graphically using log(–log) plots. The number of patients
needed to treat with bivalirudin rather than heparin to
prevent one primary endpoint event was calculated.
Consistency of the treatment effect for the primary
endpoint was examined in 19 prespecified subgroups.
Detailed information of prespecified subgroups are listed
in the appendix (pp 44–45). All statistical analyses were
two-sided and were performed with SAS version 9.4. The
trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03822975).
